# Salesforce Development Flow
Here are the steps you'll take when adding, updating or deleting metadata or code in our Git repository. If this is your first time building features branches in Git, start by reading the [Git Branch Model & Flow](Salesforce-Git-Branching-Model.md).

1. Make sure your dev scratch org is in sync with what's in the Git repository by fetching the latest (called `Synchronize Changes` in VSC) from the `dev` branch of the repository. If you do not have a scratch org yet or if your scratch org will expire before you can finish a new feature, follow the [Create a Scratch Org](Salesforce-Development-Setup.md#Create-a-Scratch-Org) instructions to generate a new scratch org. Once your scratch org is ready, use the [Deploy Metadata to Org](Salesforce-Development-Setup.md#Deploy-Metadata-to-Org) command to deploy all metadata from the Git branch on your local computer to your dev scratch org.
2. Next, create a new feature branch off the `dev` branch with the naming convention `feature/yourname/ticket-id` - something like `feature/quentin/PRI-149`. This lets us easily see that it's a feature branch, who's working on it and the ticket id in whatever story tracking tool we use.
3. Make changes for the feature or bug in VSC and/or your dev scratch org. All code changes should be made in VSC but metadata changes should be made in your dev scratch org. If you made changes in your dev scratch org, use the [Retrieve Metadata from Org](Salesforce-Development-Setup.md#Retrieve-Metadata-from-Org) command to pull changes from your dev scratch org to your local computer so they can be committed to Git.
4. You can commit changes to the feature branch as often as you want. Each commit will start a [feature validation CI/CD process](Salesforce-CICD-Process.md#Commit-to-feature-branch) to verify your commit is valid and has test coverage.
5. Once you have everything done for the new feature or bug fix AND the CI/CD verification process completes without an error, you will need to create a Merge or Pull Request so your changes can be reviewed. In our repository, click the `Pull requests` tab below the repository name. Recent commits usually appear on the Pull Request page and you can quickly create a PR from it. If you don't see this, click the green `New pull request` button.
6. Fill out the Pull Request form and make sure the feature branch is being merged into the `dev` branch. Also include the ticket Id Story number in the title or comment so the reviewer knows which ticket the Pull Request is for. Be sure to assign a senior user to review the Pull Request.
7. Once approved, the feature branch will be merged into the `dev` branch by the reviewer. Merging into the `dev` branch will start another [CI/CD process that will build a scratch org](Salesforce-CICD-Process.md#Merge-feature-branch-to-dev-branch) where the QA team can test the feature.

